scale-i2c/README.md, before:

<p align="right">
<a href="https://hackuarium.github.io/beemos/">
<img border="0" alt="beemos" src="https://github.com/Hackuarium/beemos/raw/master/common/images/logoBeeMoS.png" width="100">
</a>
</p>

# Scale

The purpose of this board is to measure the weight of the hive periodically. This allows to detect honey production and swarming. It is an I2C slave that includes a HX711 for weight measurement.

## Hardware components

The following components are present on the board:

Microcontroller: ATmega328

Sensors:

- HX711 Amplifier
- 4X load sensors SEN-10245 (confirm REF)

Connectors:

- 2X RJ12 to connect other boards via I2C

## Programming

After soldering the device you need to add a bootloader.
This device is based on an ATmega328 at 8MHz (3.3v). It is compatible
with an Arduino Fio.

To install the bootloader we are using as cable the tag-connect as well as
a TinyISP module.

<img src="docs/TC2030-IDC-NL.jpg" />

Once the bootloader has been flashed you may program using a serial
adaptator like the FT232RL.

<img src="docs/FT232RL.jpg" />

## I2C registers

This device appears like a I2C slave at the address XXX and allows the following commands

| Register address | Description                    | R/W |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------ | --- |
| 0: A             | Log ID                         | R   |
| 1: B             | Seconds since last log         | R   |
| 2: C             | Weight (internal unit)         | R   |
| 3: D             | Weight (g)                     | R   |
| 4: E             | Offset (internal unit)         | R   |
| 5: F             | Factor (internal unit)         | R   |
| 6: G             | Minimal weight (internal unit) | R   |
| 7: H             | Maximal weight (internal unit) | R   |
| 13: N            | Power supply (in mV)           | R   |
| 14: O            | Logging interval               | R/W |
| 15: P            | Delay before going to sleep    | R/W |

### Actions

Those actions allows to calibrate the scale. Please take care that you need to weight
at least 5s so that the scale stabilize.

| Register address | Description                            | R/W |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --- |
| 16: Q            | Define empty level                     | W   |
| 17: R            | Define the weight one kg over the tare | W   |
| 18: S            | Define low level                       | W   |
| 19: T            | Define high level                      | W   |

## Performances

- Consumption in sleep mode:
- Consumption awake:

## Making

Version 1.0.0 has 2 small bugs:

- small cable has to be soldered as show in the following picture
- the resistor in the red circle should be 220k instead of 1m

<img src="docs/board100.jpg" />

If you want to solder a loading cell you may use the following color cabling

<img src="docs/loadcell.jpg" />

Final global view:

<img src="docs/full.jpg" />

Commit message:

(scale-i2c): add some parameters in the docs

scale-i2c/README.md, after:

<p align="right">
<a href="https://hackuarium.github.io/beemos/">
<img border="0" alt="beemos" src="https://github.com/Hackuarium/beemos/raw/master/common/images/logoBeeMoS.png" width="100">
</a>
</p>

# Scale

The purpose of this board is to measure the weight of the hive periodically. This allows to detect honey production and swarming. It is an I2C slave that includes a HX711 for weight measurement.

## Hardware components

The following components are present on the board:

Microcontroller: ATmega328

Sensors:

- HX711 Amplifier
- 4X load sensors SEN-10245 (confirm REF)

Connectors:

- 2X RJ12 to connect other boards via I2C

## Programming

After soldering the device you need to add a bootloader.
This device is based on an ATmega328 at 8MHz (3.3v). It is compatible
with an Arduino Fio.

To install the bootloader we are using as cable the tag-connect as well as
a TinyISP module.

<img src="docs/TC2030-IDC-NL.jpg" />

Once the bootloader has been flashed you may program using a serial
adaptator like the FT232RL.

<img src="docs/FT232RL.jpg" />

## I2C registers

This device appears like a I2C slave at the address **16** and allows the following commands

| Register address | Description                    | R/W |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------ | --- |
| 0: A             | Log ID                         | R   |
| 1: B             | Seconds since last log         | R   |
| 2: C             | Weight (internal unit)         | R   |
| 3: D             | Weight (g)                     | R   |
| 4: E             | Offset (internal unit)         | R   |
| 5: F             | Factor (internal unit)         | R   |
| 6: G             | Minimal weight (internal unit) | R   |
| 7: H             | Maximal weight (internal unit) | R   |
| 8: I             | Reference value (in 10g unit)  | R   |
| 9: J             | Weight (mg) (LOW bits)         | R   |
| 10: K            | Weight (mg) (HIGH bits)        | R   |
| 13: N            | Power supply (in mV)           | R   |
| 14: O            | Logging interval               | R/W |
| 15: P            | Delay before going to sleep    | R/W |

### Actions

Those actions allows to calibrate the scale. Please take care that you need to weight
at least 5s so that the scale stabilize.

| Register address | Description                            | R/W |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------- | --- |
| 16: Q            | Define empty level                     | W   |
| 17: R            | Define the weight one kg over the tare | W   |
| 18: S            | Define low level                       | W   |
| 19: T            | Define high level                      | W   |

### Reference

Before the reference used to be 1kg. A more flexible system had to be
setup in order to deal with small quantities (less than 100g) as well
as large quantities (over 10kg). Therefore the parameter `I` allows to
specifiy the weight of the reference used during calibration.
This value is expressed in decagram (unit of 10g). By default it is
100 (the reference by default is 1kg).

## Performances

- Consumption in sleep mode:
- Consumption awake:

## Making

Version 1.0.0 has 2 small bugs:

- small cable has to be soldered as show in the following picture
- the resistor in the red circle should be 220k instead of 1m (fix out of bound A/D converter scale)

<img src="docs/board100.jpg" />

If you want to solder a loading cell you may use the following color cabling

<img src="docs/loadcell.jpg" />

Final global view:

<img src="docs/full.jpg" />
